Rename the group name: topolvm.io (#539)
topolvm/topolvm: docs/proposals/rename-group.md

- Rename the key name `topolvm.cybozu.com/device-class` in the` parameters` field to `topolvm.io/device-class`

**Since it is not possible to change the StorageClass resource, it is necessary to recreate the resource when migrating the group name.**

##### LogicalVolume

Modify each LogicalVolume resources in TopoLVM as follows:

- Change the CRD to use from `logicalvolumes.topolvm.cybozu.com` to` logicalvolumes.topolvm.io`
- Change the `topolvm.cybozu.com/resize-requested-at` annotation to` topolvm.io/resize-requested-at`
- Change the `topolvm.cybozu.com/logicalvolume` finalizer to` topolvm.io/logicalvolume`

**Since the CRD itself changes for the Logical Volume resource, it is necessary to delete the old CRD resource and create a new CRD resource when migrating the group name. Also, in order to prevent the deletion of the actual LVM volume due to the logical volume migration, it is recommended to migrate with the TopoLVM components stopped.**

##### Node

Make the following changes for each Node resources

- Change the `topolvm.cybozu.com/node` finalizer to` topolvm.io/node`

##### PersistentVolumeClaim

Modify each PersistentVolumeClaim resources in TopoLVM as follows:

> - Change the value of the `volume.beta.kubernetes.io/storage-provisioner` annotation to` topolvm.io`

Reviewer: I could not find files where these changes are applied. Could you tell me which files were modified?

Author: This is here:

Reviewer: I thought that this document describes what "you" are going to change. However, the file change of `pkg/controller/volume/persistentvolume/pv_controller_base.go` is not included in this PR.
So I still cannot understand why you added this sentence here.

Author: Because the value of `volume.beta.kubernetes.io/storage-provisioner` is `topolvm.cybozu.com` and needs to be changed to `topolvm.io`.

Reviewer: I finally understand (that it is indirect change of the annotation).

It was hard to understand for me that this statement refers to the line below at first glance.

>This is here:
https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/a7b1fcba40784af64c949b28e7a2ca03433a3a75/pkg/controller/volume/persistentvolume/pv_controller_base.go#L638-L639

This is because the word search of `volume.beta.kubernetes.io/storage-provisioner` in TopoLVM project repository does not hit the line. Could you add the link to these lines for the readers' reference?

- Change the value of the `volume.kubernetes.io/storage-provisioner` annotation to` topolvm.io`
- Change the `topolvm.cybozu.com/pvc` finalizer to` topolvm.io/pvc`

##### PersistentVolume

Modify each PersistentVolume resource in TopoLVM as follows:

> - Change the value of the `pv.kubernetes.io/provisioned-by` annotation to` topolvm.io`

Reviewer: I could not find files where these changes are applied. Could you tell me which files were modified?

Author: this is here: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/a7b1fcba40784af64c949b28e7a2ca03433a3a75/pkg/controller/volume/persistentvolume/pv_controller.go#L1662

- Change the value of the `.spec.csi.driver` field to` topolvm.io`
- Change the string `topolvm.cybozu.com` in the value of the `.spec.csi.volumeAttributes ["storage.kubernetes.io/csiProvisionerIdentity "]` field to` topolvm.io`

> **Since it is not possible to change the above fields of the PersistentVolume resource, it is necessary to recreate the resource when migrating the group name. Also, if `.spec.persistentVolumeReclaimPolicy = Delete` is set, there is a risk of deleting the actual LVM volume, so it is recommended to temporarily change it to` Retain` and then delete it.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Since it is not possible to change the above fields of the PersistentVolume resource, it is necessary to recreate the resource when migrating the group name. Also, if `.spec.persistentVolumeReclaimPolicy = Delete` is set, there is a risk of deleting the actual LVM volume, so it is recommended to temporarily change it to `Retain` and then delete it.**
```

### Enable the use of topolvm.cybozu.com

We will make the following changes to allow users to continue to use `topolvm.cybozu.com`.

#### Addition of group name setting function

> - If you set the `USE_LEGACY_PLUGIN_NAME` environment variable, make sure that the group name uses` topolvm.cybozu.com`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you set the `USE_LEGACY_PLUGIN_NAME` environment variable, the group name `topolvm.cybozu.com` will be used
```

> - If the `USE_LEGACY_PLUGIN_NAME` environment variable is not set, the group name` topolvm.io` will be used

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the `USE_LEGACY_PLUGIN_NAME` environment variable is not set, the group name `topolvm.io` will be used
```

#### Group name setting in helm chart

> Add the `.Values.useLegacyName` variable to the helm chart and set this variable to` true` to set the installation manifest to use `topolvm.cybozu.com`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the `.Values.useLegacyName` variable to the helm chart and set this variable to `true` to set the installation manifest to use `topolvm.cybozu.com`.
```

> If the `.Values.useLegacyName` variable is not set to` true`, the group name will be `topolvm.io`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the `.Values.useLegacyName` variable is not set to `true`, the group name will be `topolvm.io`.
```

> If you have set the following variables, you may need to set them appropriately to use `topolvm.io` or` topolvm.cybozu.com` in the variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are going to set the following variables, you may need to set them appropriately to use `topolvm.io` or `topolvm.cybozu.com` in the variables.
```

- `.Values.storageClasses`
- `.Values.node.volumes`
- `.Values.volumeMounts.topolvmNode`

#### Automatic generation for API and CRD

> Automatically generating the API and CRD of `topolvm.cybozu.com` based on the API and CRD of` topolvm.io`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Automatically generating the API and CRD of `topolvm.cybozu.com` based on the API and CRD of `topolvm.io`.
```

Reviewer: Also, what did you mean by saying "based on the API and CRD of` topolvm.io`"? I could not imagine how the API and CRD of `topolvm.cybozu.com` are generated automatically.

### Things to be done by users of topolvm.cybozu.com for upgrading the helm chart

Since this change was released, users of TopoLVM with the group name `topolvm.cybozu.com` will need to take the following actions when upgrading the helm chart.

> - Set the `.Values.useLegacyName` variable to` true` in `values.yaml` in the helm chart

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Set the `.Values.useLegacyName `variable to` true` in `values.yaml` in the helm chart
```

> - If there is a part of the `values.yaml` in the helm chart that uses the string `topolvm.cybozu.com`, change it to` topolvm.io`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If there is a part of the `values.yaml` in the helm chart that uses the string `topolvm.cybozu.com`, change it to `topolvm.io`
```

If you upgrade the helm chart without taking above actions, it is possible that TopoLVM related resources will be deleted.

### Migrate from topolvm.cybozu.com to topolvm.io

> If you are already using TopoLVM with the group name `topolvm.cybozu.com` and want to migrate the group name to` topolvm.io` after the release of this change, you can manually change the data by the following method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are already using TopoLVM with the group name `topolvm.cybozu.com` and want to migrate the group name to `topolvm.io` after the release of this change, you can manually change the data by the following method.
```

1. Avoid booting pods using TopoLVM volumes during migration
1. Temporarily stop the following pods:

>   - topolvm-controller
>   - topolvm-node
>   - topolvm-scheduler

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - topolvm-controller
   - topolvm-node
   - topolvm-scheduler
```
Currently, numbering restarts from 1 at line 143. Changes above will prevent it.

1. Manually install the CRD for `topolvm.io`
1. Perform the migration work for each resource as mentioned in the chapter `Changes to topolvm.io`.
1. Please migrate while confirming that the pod using the updated resource (e.g. Persistent Volume) continues to operate without problems.
1. If the migration of various data is successful, restart the stopped pod.

> 1. Create PersistentVolume using StorageClass with the group name of `topolvm.io` set to` provisioner`  and check if mount to Pod succeeds

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create PersistentVolume using StorageClass with the group name of `topolvm.io` set to` provisioner` and check if mount to Pod succeeds
```

# Allocation strategies

## Summary

Change `topolvm.cybozu.com` used in the CRD and plugin name of TopoLVM to `topolvm.io`.

## Motivation

> We thinking donate the TopoLVM project to CNCF in the future.
> That's why we'll remove the strings that "cybozy.com" from your project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are thinking of donating the TopoLVM project to CNCF in the future.
So we would like to remove the domain name "cybozy.com," which contains the specific company's name, from the project.
```

### Things to be done by users of topolvm.cybozu.com for upgrading the helm chart

Since this change was released, users of TopoLVM with the group name `topolvm.cybozu.com` will need to take the following actions when upgrading the helm chart.

- Set the `.Values.useLegacy `variable to` true` in `values.yaml` in the helm chart
- If there is a part of the `values.yaml` in the helm chart that uses the string `topolvm.cybozu.com`, change it to `topolvm.io`

If you upgrade the helm chart without taking above actions, it is possible that TopoLVM related resources will be deleted.

### Migrate from topolvm.cybozu.com to topolvm.io

If you are already using TopoLVM with the group name topolvm.cybozu.com and want to migrate the group name to topolvm.io after the release of this change, you can manually migrate the data by the following method.

**You should back up LVM data managed by TopoLVM because the data could be lost when the migration is failed.**

**Please test the migration procedure before you execute the migration. Also, since the migration procedure is complicated, please consider using TopoLVM as topolvm.cybozu.com without migration.**

> 1. Deploy the `topolvm.io` version of TopoLVM (when used with the `topolvm.cybozu.com` version of TopoLVM,  names of cluster-wide resources such as StorageClass names need to be changed)

Reviewer 2: Would you please add a note to suggest deploying a new topolvm to a different namespace from the existing topolvm to avoid collisions of resource names?

1. Create a new PV(C) using the topolvm.io version of TopoLVM
1. Copy the LVM volume data created by the `topolvm.cybozu.com` version of TopoLVM to new LVM volumes created by the `topolvm.io` version of TopoLVM by some ways such as `rsync` command (You can know the targets LV Name of LVM from the values of PV's  `.spec.csi.volumeHandle`)
1. Start pods using volumes created by the `topolvm.io` version of TopoLVM and confirm the data has been migrated without problems

> 

Reviewer 2: And user should remove old PVC before remove topolvm, otherwise lvs will be remain.

# Allocation strategies

## Summary

Change `topolvm.cybozu.com` used in the CRD and plugin name of TopoLVM to `topolvm.io`.

## Motivation

We are thinking of donating the TopoLVM project to CNCF in the future.

> So we would like to remove the domain name "cybozy.com," which contains the specific company's name, from the project.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
So we would like to remove the domain name "cybozu.com," which contains the specific company's name, from the project.
```

Author: Thanks.

### Goals

- Change `topolvm.cybozu.com` used in TopoLVM's CRD and plugin name to `topolvm.io`
- Keep TopoLVM available at `topolvm.cybozu.com` for existing users

> 

Author: appended it.
https://github.com/topolvm/topolvm/pull/539/commits/93c9be7ce08a037d1629a1424bb000971ca3df14

## Design details

### Changes to topolvm.io

Change the group name `topolvm.cybozu.com` used below to `topolvm.io`.

#### constants.go

constant name | value
--- | ---
CapacityKeyPrefix | capacity.topolvm.cybozu.com/
CapacityResource | topolvm.cybozu.com/capacity
PluginName | topolvm.cybozu.com
TopologyNodeKey | topology.topolvm.cybozu.com/node
DeviceClassKey | topolvm.cybozu.com/device-class
ResizeRequestedAtKey | topolvm.cybozu.com/resize-requested-at
LogicalVolumeFinalizer | topolvm.cybozu.com/logicalvolume
NodeFinalizer | topolvm.cybozu.com/node

#### CRD

Change from `logicalvolumes.topolvm.cybozu.com` to` logicalvolumes.topolvm.io`.

#### Resources

##### CSIDriver

Rename the `topolvm.cybozu.com` CSIDriver resource to `topolvm.io`

##### StorageClass

Modify each StorageClass resource in TopoLVM as follows:

- Change the value of the `provisioner` field from `topolvm.cybozu.com` to `topolvm.io`
- Rename the key name `topolvm.cybozu.com/device-class` in the` parameters` field to `topolvm.io/device-class`

**Since it is not possible to change the StorageClass resource, it is necessary to recreate the resource when migrating the group name.**

##### LogicalVolume

> Modify each LogicalVolume resources in TopoLVM as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Modify each LogicalVolume resource in TopoLVM as follows:
```

- Set the `.Values.useLegacy `variable to` true` in `values.yaml` in the helm chart
- If there is a part of the `values.yaml` in the helm chart that uses the string `topolvm.cybozu.com`, change it to `topolvm.io`

If you upgrade the helm chart without taking above actions, it is possible that TopoLVM related resources will be deleted.

### Migrate from topolvm.cybozu.com to topolvm.io

If you are already using TopoLVM with the group name `topolvm.cybozu.com` and want to migrate the group name to `topolvm.io` after the release of this change, you can manually change the data by the following method.

1. Avoid booting pods using TopoLVM volumes during migration.
1. Temporarily stop the following pods:
   - topolvm-controller
   - topolvm-node
   - topolvm-scheduler
1. Manually install the CRD for `topolvm.io`
1. Perform the migration work for each resource as mentioned in the chapter `Changes to topolvm.io`.
   - Please migrate while confirming that the pod using the updated resource (e.g. Persistent Volume) continues to operate without problems.

> 1. If the migration of various data is successful, restart the stopped pod.

Reviewer 2: This way looks not match current PR changes. We can deploy TopoLVM using a new group name on another namespace. Users should migrate user data and don't have to change group names manually.

Author: Thank you. I updated the migration process.
https://github.com/topolvm/topolvm/pull/539/commits/929e4f461d0cda5890910926abc2adb8c2428803

# Allocation strategies

## Summary

Change `topolvm.cybozu.com` used in the CRD and plugin name of TopoLVM to `topolvm.io`.

## Motivation

We are thinking of donating the TopoLVM project to CNCF in the future.
So we would like to remove the domain name "cybozu.com," which contains the specific company's name, from the project.

### Goals

- Change `topolvm.cybozu.com` used in TopoLVM's CRD and plugin name to `topolvm.io`

> - Keep TopoLVM available at `topolvm.cybozu.com` for existing users(but does not support concurrent use with topolvm.io partly)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Keep TopoLVM available at `topolvm.cybozu.com` for existing users (but does not support concurrent use with topolvm.io partly)
```

Reviewer: Also, I could not understand what you tried to mean by saying "partly".

Author: Sorry, I fixed this description. Would you review this again?

- Change the `topolvm.cybozu.com/resize-requested-at` annotation to` topolvm.io/resize-requested-at`
- Change the `topolvm.cybozu.com/logicalvolume` finalizer to` topolvm.io/logicalvolume`

**Since the CRD itself changes for the Logical Volume resource, it is necessary to delete the old CRD resource and create a new CRD resource when migrating the group name. Also, in order to prevent the deletion of the actual LVM volume due to the logical volume migration, it is recommended to migrate with the TopoLVM components stopped.**

##### Node

Make the following changes for each Node resources

- Change the `topolvm.cybozu.com/node` finalizer to` topolvm.io/node`

##### PersistentVolumeClaim

Modify each PersistentVolumeClaim resources in TopoLVM as follows:

- Change the value of the `volume.beta.kubernetes.io/storage-provisioner`[^storage-provisioner] annotation to` topolvm.io`
- Change the value of the `volume.kubernetes.io/storage-provisioner`[^storage-provisioner] annotation to` topolvm.io`

[^storage-provisioner]: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/v1.24.2/pkg/controller/volume/persistentvolume/pv_controller_base.go#L638-L639

##### PersistentVolume

> Modify each PersistentVolume resource in TopoLVM as follows:

Author: Thank you. I added an additional description. Would you review this description?

##### LogicalVolume

Modify each LogicalVolume resources in TopoLVM as follows:

- Change the CRD to use from `logicalvolumes.topolvm.cybozu.com` to` logicalvolumes.topolvm.io`
- Change the `topolvm.cybozu.com/resize-requested-at` annotation to` topolvm.io/resize-requested-at`
- Change the `topolvm.cybozu.com/logicalvolume` finalizer to` topolvm.io/logicalvolume`

**Since the CRD itself changes for the Logical Volume resource, it is necessary to delete the old CRD resource and create a new CRD resource when migrating the group name. Also, in order to prevent the deletion of the actual LVM volume due to the logical volume migration, it is recommended to migrate with the TopoLVM components stopped.**

##### Node

Make the following changes for each Node resources

- Change the `topolvm.cybozu.com/node` finalizer to` topolvm.io/node`

##### PersistentVolumeClaim

Modify each PersistentVolumeClaim resources in TopoLVM as follows:

- Change the value of the `volume.beta.kubernetes.io/storage-provisioner`[^storage-provisioner] annotation to` topolvm.io`
- Change the value of the `volume.kubernetes.io/storage-provisioner`[^storage-provisioner] annotation to` topolvm.io`

> - Change the `topolvm.cybozu.com/pvc` finalizer to` topolvm.io/pvc`

Author: fixed.

### Things to be done by users of topolvm.cybozu.com for upgrading the helm chart

Since this change was released, users of TopoLVM with the group name `topolvm.cybozu.com` will need to take the following actions when upgrading the helm chart.

- Set the `.Values.useLegacy `variable to` true` in `values.yaml` in the helm chart
- If there is a part of the `values.yaml` in the helm chart that uses the string `topolvm.cybozu.com`, change it to `topolvm.io`

If you upgrade the helm chart without taking above actions, it is possible that TopoLVM related resources will be deleted.

### Migrate from topolvm.cybozu.com to topolvm.io

If you are already using TopoLVM with the group name `topolvm.cybozu.com` and want to migrate the group name to `topolvm.io` after the release of this change, you can manually change the data by the following method.

1. Avoid booting pods using TopoLVM volumes during migration
1. Temporarily stop the following pods:
   - topolvm-controller
   - topolvm-node
   - topolvm-scheduler
1. Manually install the CRD for `topolvm.io`
1. Perform the migration work for each resource as mentioned in the chapter `Changes to topolvm.io`.

> 1. Please migrate while confirming that the pod using the updated resource (e.g. Persistent Volume) continues to operate without problems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Please migrate while confirming that the pod using the updated resource (e.g. Persistent Volume) continues to operate without problems.
```
I thought this is not a migration step, but a note for users.

#### Addition of group name setting function

- If you set the `USE_LEGACY` environment variable, the group name `topolvm.cybozu.com` will be used
- If the `USE_LEGACY` environment variable is not set, the group name `topolvm.io` will be used

#### Group name setting in helm chart

Add the `.Values.useLegacy` variable to the helm chart and set this variable to `true` to set the installation manifest to use `topolvm.cybozu.com`.
If the `.Values.useLegacy` variable is not set to `true`, the group name will be `topolvm.io`.

If you are going to set the following variables, you may need to set them appropriately to use `topolvm.io` or `topolvm.cybozu.com` in the variables.

- `.Values.storageClasses`
- `.Values.node.volumes`
- `.Values.volumeMounts.topolvmNode`

#### Automatic generation for API and CRD

Automatically generating the API and CRD of `topolvm.cybozu.com` based on the API and CRD of `topolvm.io`.

### Auto group conversion for LogicalVolume

Add a wrap client for controller-runtime client to automatically convert a group of LogicalVolume resources.
Change each controller and other components to use this wrapped client.

## User action

> Migration to `topolvm.io` is not mandatory and `topolvm.cybozu.com` is going to be maintained.  If users want to continue to use  `topolvm.cybozu.com`, they should set `.Values.useLegacy` parameter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Migration to `topolvm.io` is not mandatory and `topolvm.cybozu.com` is going to be maintained. Those who still want to use `topolvm.cybozu.com` must set `.Values.useLegacy:true` for the helm chart when updating TopoLVM.
```

Change each controller and other components to use this wrapped client.

### Things to be done by users of topolvm.cybozu.com for upgrading the helm chart

Since this change was released, users of TopoLVM with the group name `topolvm.cybozu.com` will need to take the following actions when upgrading the helm chart.

- Set the `.Values.useLegacy `variable to` true` in `values.yaml` in the helm chart
- If there is a part of the `values.yaml` in the helm chart that uses the string `topolvm.cybozu.com`, change it to `topolvm.io`

If you upgrade the helm chart without taking above actions, it is possible that TopoLVM related resources will be deleted.

### Migrate from topolvm.cybozu.com to topolvm.io

If you are already using TopoLVM with the group name `topolvm.cybozu.com` and want to migrate the group name to `topolvm.io` after the release of this change, you can manually change the data by the following method.

**You should backup Kubernetes resources (PV, PVC, LogicalVolume CR) and lvm that data managed by TopoLVM because the data could be lost when the migration is failed.**

> **Also, please verify in advance whether the migration will succeed without any problems before executing the migration.**

Reviewer: It looks contradicting because you are saying to verify the migration before users do the migration.
Do you mean users should test it in advance? If so, how about rewriting it as follows?

"Also, please test the migration procedure in advance before you actually execute the migration."

1. Update a scheduler config and restart a kube-scheduler
1. Perform the migration work for each resource as mentioned in the chapter `Changes to topolvm.io`.
   - Please migrate while confirming that the pod using the updated resource (e.g. Persistent Volume) continues to operate without problems.
1. Start topolvm-node after resource migration

#### Manual migration procedure

##### LogicalVolume

1. Run command like `kubectl get logicalvolumes.topolvm.cybozu.com <name> -o yaml > logicalvolumes.yaml` and get current LogicalVolume data.
1. Edit a `logicalvolumes.yaml` file like follows:
   * Remove unnecessary metadata fields like a `.metadata.creationTimestamp`
   * Edit `.apiVersion` value to `topolvm.io/v1`
   * If there is a `topolvm.cybozu.com/resize-requested-at` field in `.metadata.annotations`, rewrite it to `topolvm.io/resize-requested-at`
   * If there is `topolvm.cybozu.com/logicalvolume` in `.metadata.finalizers`, delete it and add `topolvm.io/logicalvolume`
1. Run command like `kubectl apply -f logicalvolumes.yaml` and create a migrated LogicalVolume
1. Set the `.status` field to the value from `logicalvolumes.yaml` with `kubectl edit logicalvolumes.topolvm.io <name>`

> 

Reviewer: I suspect that this is not an intended procedure.
I thought that the following procedure is correct.

1. deploy a new topolvm (topolvm.io) (at this point, old and new topolvm are working simultaneously.)
3. manually copy all data from PVCs of old topolvm (topolvm.cybozu.com) to new one (topolvm.io).
4. delete old topolvm (topolvm.cybozu.com)

@llamerada-jp Is my understanding correct?

Add a wrap client for controller-runtime client to automatically convert a group of LogicalVolume resources.
Change each controller and other components to use this wrapped client.

> ## User considerations.
> 
> Migration is not enforced as existing domain name `topolvm.cybozu.com` is going to continue to be maintained.  However, only the `.Values.useLegacy` setting is required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## User action

Migration to `topolvm.io` is not mandatory and `topolvm.cybozu.com` is going to be maintained.  If users want to continue to use  `topolvm.cybozu.com`, they should set `.Values.useLegacy` parameter.
```

Author: Thank you. I applied your commit suggestion.
